the japanese word ronin describes a
samurai without a master
who wanders alone the status of aronian
varied
across different time periods in a
general sense
being a ronin implied failure more
specifically
ronan had renounced the act of suppuku
which is a form of japanese ritual
suicide
that was applied to restore honor after
defeat
those who refused supuku became outcasts
that endured a reputation of disgrace
walking their own path some ronin worked
as mercenaries
and bodyguards and others became
criminals
one of the most legendary ronin is
miyamoto musashi was famed as japan's
greatest
swordsman undefeated in more than 60
jewels
musashi became a ronin after he escaped
death
during the battle of seiki gahaga when
serving general hideyori
aside from being a swordsman he was also
a philosopher
artist and a well-learned buddhist
among other writings musashi left us
with
21 principles for those who walk alone
named dokodo that he wrote down not long
before he died
even though the age of the samurai is
long gone musashi's principles are
timeless
and can inspire us today to live well
this three-part series elaborates on the
21 principles
from musashi's dokodo please note
the elaborations in this video are based
on existing philosophies
the author's interpretations and
reasoning and are intended to be an
inspiration
for present day life
[Music]
1. accept everything just the way it is
in the book of the five rings miyamoto
musashi explains
the way of the warrior through the art
of sword fighting
when reading this book it becomes clear
that the way
means a life of ongoing practice
especially when we look at this
from a buddhist lens we can conclude
that the only effective
way of practice is based on the
acceptance of how things currently are
we cannot improve if we aren't willing
to be novices at first
part of meditation practice for example
is the acceptance of the current state
of affairs
in order to strengthen the mind but
musashi goes even further
by saying that a warrior should
resolutely accept
death death is not just an inevitable
part of life
but also an acceptable fate to preserve
honor
according to old japanese traditions the
act of seppuku
is based on the idea of honorable death
that
follows in a situation when staying
alive would be a disgrace
for example when someone has failed his
or her duty
now especially for the modern western
mind this idea is extreme
nevertheless the resolute acceptance of
death
can help us to accept that it's a path
we all take some day
in buddhism there's a practice called
corpse meditation
during which one can contemplate death
in the presence of a dead body
or simply by imagining one by doing this
practice repeatedly
a buddhist comes to terms with the
reality of death
for aronin we can say that the
acceptance of once aloneness
is essential musashi for instance had to
face
the world without the support of a
school or master traveling the land
and fighting jewels to perfect his skill
thus
he walked a very solitary path on which
one can only flourish
when aloneness is accepted
2. do not seek pleasure for its own sake
despite his ronan status musashi
emphasized
virtue above pleasure he could have
become a mercenary or a thief but he
chose to develop himself spiritually
to perfect the art of the longsword and
sacrificed his life
for the greater good multiple times at
most
pleasure should be a side effect of
one's pursuit
of virtue the meaning of virtue is
different across time periods
as ethics and views on morality change
over time
but we can distinguish pleasure seeking
meaning the pursuit of selfish
gratification of the senses
from doing something good for the world
without taking sense gratification
into account musashi's attitude toward
pleasure
is very similar to stoic and buddhist
attitudes
that go together with sense restraint
epictetus for example
argued that in the long term the victory
of abstaining from pleasure
is better than to be overpowered by it
the buddhists argue that sensual
pleasure in itself
isn't enjoyable at all it's simply a
scratch to an itch
a niche that will worsen if we keep
scratching to the point
that it will lead us astray for aronin
it can be vital to keep pleasure seeking
at bay
as ronins wander alone the pursuit of
pleasure can become a trap
in which they get entangled in the world
in destructive
ways the pursuit of tasty food cheap
entertainment
lust not only tethers people to the
mundane it also holds them back from
practice which according to musashi
could lead to a deeper spiritual
understanding
in his days of solitude musashi could
have never perfected his swordsmanship
if he had indulged in pleasure 3.
do not under any circumstances depend on
a partial feeling feelings are important
as they indicate that something is going
on
but they aren't always ideal when it
comes to making decisions
the problem with feelings is that
they're often based
on irrational thinking thus based on a
delusional view
of reality therefore feelings are in
many cases
partial as they don't tell us the whole
story which means
that acting upon them can lead to
actions that might be wrong and
destructive
instead rational thinking logic reason
or in short assessing a situation and
observing our feelings with
mental clarity is more reliable thus
it's important that we're mindful of
what's going on in our mind and body
are we overpowered by emotion are we
coming from a place of anger or fear
if this is the case our best bet is to
let the dust in our minds
settle and reassess the situation again
when our minds are
clear needless to say battles need to be
fought with a clear mind
and enemies should be approached rather
with mental clarity than with emotion
as the latter is detrimental to our
skills and could lead to stupid
decisions
4. think likely of yourself and
deeply of the world miyamoto musashi was
lethal and humble at the same time aware
of its insignificance
compared to the bigger picture and also
with a willingness to serve
the greater good thinking lightly of
ourselves
means that we acknowledge that we aren't
that important
of course we're inherently valuable as
human beings
but the reality is that if we die
tomorrow
the world probably doesn't stop spinning
if we compare ourselves to the universe
we're incredibly small
and above all dependent on the whole why
think so highly of ourselves
and elevate ourselves above the
environment when we're utterly dependent
on it
the universe is so incredibly vast so
complex
so much more than his ego in our heads
and by realizing this
we know that not being humble doesn't
make any sense
a ronin was probably aware of this as
facing the world alone
can be an eye-opening experience in
regards to how small
and vulnerable we are so it's not a bad
idea to take ourselves with a grain of
salt
sometimes and reflect on how significant
our lives
truly are this doesn't mean that we
should remove ourselves
from the equation but that we always try
to be aware
of the proportions between ourselves and
the environment
so that we don't inflate our
self-importance and become
deluded 5. be detached from desire
your whole life long desire and aversion
are two sides of the same coin
if we are averse to something it means
that we desire to not incur
the thing we are averse to desire thus
means that we let our happiness depend
on something that
lies outside of us unfortunately outside
circumstances are beyond our control
so if we let our happiness depend on
them we've put ourselves in an
unreliable position
needless to say this approach to desire
is
very stoic the buddhists see desire or
more specifically
attachment as the root of suffering
being attached to desire
means that we are fixed on our pursuit
of external things
assuming that this pursuit will make us
happy musashi tells us
that despite the vastness of the
external world and the smallness of
ourselves
the key to well-being lies within
i quote there's nothing outside of
yourself
that can ever enable you to get better
stronger
richer quicker or smarter everything is
within
everything exists seek nothing outside
of yourself
end quote so we could say that even
though we should be humble
to the greatness of the universe our
focus should be on our own actions
within that universe and not on what we
can get
from it as the latter isn't reliable
this is how stoic floods for epictetus
puts it
and i quote the things in our control
are by nature free
unrestrained unhindered but those not in
our control
are weak slavish restrained
belonging to others end quote
musashi justly realized that desiring
things not in our control
isn't an effective strategy for a good
life
experience teaches us that a following
desire
can lead to addiction 6.
do not regret what you have done
self-reflection
and the ability to see what we did wrong
and how we may have hurt
other beings is a very valuable skill
which is essential when it comes to
building
meaningful relationships and avoiding
past faults
in the future but repeatedly beating
ourselves up
over the mistakes we made in the past
isn't going to help anyone
at most we show people that we feel bad
about what we have done
which can be a good thing but after a
while
the only way we can go is forward
moreover many bad things that happen
tend to be blessings in disguise
and with shame and damage comes wisdom
the realization of the destructiveness
of our own actions
is an opportunity to become more
cautious and more empathetic
which prevents us from more misery in
the future when you lose
don't lose the lesson the dalai lama
stated
also what seem bad decisions now could
turn out to be great decisions
in the future as the future will always
remain mysterious
and will unfold in ways we can never
truly predict
7. never be jealous when facing the
world alone
like a ronin resentment is always around
the corner
being an outcast often means not having
what other people have
especially when it comes to material
things and social connections
for aronin it even meant being without a
home
drifting across the lands and not
belonging anywhere
so it's easy to become envious of those
who have
what you don't have with envy we could
look at couples when we're single
at the wealthy when we're poor at
popular people
when we ourselves are met with contempt
it's pain based on a desire of wanting
things to be different
than they are of wanting what other
people have
but for some reason we don't have
when we walk alone it's unwise to burden
ourselves
with such feelings of resentment as they
will only harm
ourselves the only thing we've got
authority over
is our own faculty all energy we spend
on bitterly comparing ourselves to other
people
is wasted ronans are better off focusing
on their own actions
and walking with blinders on if
necessary
these were the first seven principles
from miyamoto musashi's
dokodo in the first part of this
three-part
series thank you for watching
[Music]
you